# Scott Adams

- **Losers have goals. Winners have systems.**
- Fundamentally, "systems" could be thought of as asking yourself, "What persistent skills or relationships can I develop?" versus "What short-term goal can I achieve?" The former has a potent snowball effect, while the latter is a binary pass/fail with no consolation prize. When Scott first started blogging, it seemed a silly use of time on the outside because it doubled his workload while promising a 5% high income. **But blogging was a system, not a goal.**<br><br>
"Writing is a skill that requires practice. So the first part of my system involves practicing on a regular basis. I didn't know what I was practicing for, exactly, and that's what makes it a system and not a goal. I was moving from a place with low odds (being an out-of-practice writer) to a place of good odds (a well-practiced write with higher visibility)." Ultimately the blogging lead to the WSJ asking for articles, which lead to book deals, which lead to speaking engagements, etc. etc.
- On affirmations: "I'll tell you exactly how I did it, but then I'll also tell you that I'm positive the exact method doesn't matter. **I think what matters is the degree of focus and the commitment you have to that focus.** Here's why I think it seems to work, and there are several possibilities. One is something I learned long ago, and I forget who coined it but have you ever heard the phrase 'reticular activation?' It's basically the idea that it's easy to hear your own name spoken in a crowd....But you can use these affirmations, presumably - this is just a hypothesis - to focus your mind and your memory on a very specific thing. And that would allow you to notice things in your environment that might have already been there. **It's just that your filter was set to ignore, and then you just tune it through this memory and repetition trick until it widens a little bit to allow some extra stuff in."**
- There's process where once you clear the mind, you have to flood it. Usually this happens in the morning. So you empty the mind, then you flood it with new input that's not the old input. Don't watch the mind, though - watch the body. Watch for a half-chuckle, a rush of adrenaline, a sharp change of emotions, etc.
- One of the ways to not worry about stress is to eliminate it. I don't worry about my stock picks because I have a diversified portfolio. **Diversification works in almost every area of your life to reduce your stress.**
- Double/Triple Threat: Capitalism rewards things that are both rare and valuable. To be extraordinary, either be the best at one specific thing (NBA star) or become very good (top 25%) at 2 or more things. [(link to full article)](https://andrewhong.me/2017/01/24/the-logic-of-the-double-or-triple-threat/) 

